Reviewer 2 of FISTS 2024 submission 60

Comments to the author
======================

Summary of Work:
This is a case study for the UCR campus EVSE+BESS+Solar
analysis of CO2 and power costs when peak shaving as tied
to a single facility. Results are approximated in
simulation using the Modelica tool. CO2 costs are derived
from CAISO using pre-pandemic generation capabilities.
Power costs appear to be approximated residential rates and
do not follow the utility schedule or CAISO time of use.

Technical Contributions:
The addition of CO2 in the grid generation is an
interesting point; most of this paper details a fairly
simple facility EMS. The logic for the peak curtailment is
set at user-directed levels, and the system is not
flexible. The BESS provides the capability to shift the
morning EVSE high-use charging to a more economical time
when photovoltaic is available. The EMS proposed does not
compare with commercially available solutions already well
in use.

Review:

This paper effectively advocates for not charging at peak
times; this is a well-studied theme. The "duck curve" is a
well known and understood phenomenon, charging during solar
generation is optimal for reducing grid-based CO2. As only
historical values are leveraged from older data, this study
may not be particularly viable for 2023 or predictive
beyond any modern peak-shaving EMS. 

Further, costs are merely displayed. No mention of utility
schedule or time of use pricing model is constrained. As no
electric bill or information is provided, it is uncertain
what the overall power costs are annually and what the
percentage savings might be. Utility rates should be
incorporated. 

Your simulation also smooths the morning charge curve,
which is a large proponent of the EVSE-based grid draw. The
addition of the BESS and off-the-shelf EMS should handle
everything described. The primary impact of this paper
appears to be the comparison of CO2 emissions, which was
relatively new. 


There are missing references and citations.
